V2 (#3)
chadwatson/react-remote-resource: README.md

yarn add react-remote-resource
```

### Example

```jsx
import {
  createResource,
  createSingleEntryResource,
  createTimedKeyedResource,
  useEntryState,
  RemoteResourceBoundary,
} from "react-remote-resource";

const userResource = createSingleEntryResource(
  userId => fetchJson(`/api/users/${userId}`
);

const tweetsResource = createTimedKeyedResource(
  10000,
  userId => userId,
  userId => fetchJson(`/api/users/${userId}/tweets`)
);

const UserInfo = ({ userId }) => {
  const [user] = useEntryState(userResource, [userId]);

>   const [tweets] = useEntryState(tweetsResource, [userId]);

Author: Oh, I like that! I'll change that. I thought changing this to `useEntryState` instead of `useResourceState` made it more obvious that you were going to get back the state for the entry instead of the whole resource state.

## API

### `createResource`

Creates a new resource.

```javascript
const productsResource = createResource(
  // A function that gets an entry from the state.
  (currentState = {}, [id]) => currentState[id],
  // A function that sets an entry in the state.
  (currentState = {}, [id], product) => ({
    ...currentState,
    [id]: product
  }),
  // A predicate that tests whether the entry is still valid.
  (product, args) => !!product,
  // The loader function that fetches data. Should return a promise.
  id => fetch(`/api/products/${id}`).then(response => response.json())
);
```

#### Resource

The return value from `createResource` has the following shape:

```ts

> type Load<A> = (...args: Array<any>) => A | Promise<A>;

Author: Oh yeah! Good 👀.

> type Loader<A> = (currentState: ?A, refresh: boolean) => Load<A>;

Author: 👍

type Resource<A> = {
  // The generated UUID for the resource
  id: string,
  // A function that takes the current state and a refresh flag and returns a function that takes any arguments and returns the next state or a Promise that resolves with the next state
  refresh: Load<A>,
  // Returns the current state of the resource
  getState: () => A,
  // A function that takes the next state or a function that receives the current state and returns the next state.
  setState: (A | A => A) => void,
  // Allows for subscribing to resource state changes. Basically a wrapper around store.subscribe.
  subscribe: (() => void) => void,
  // A react hook that allows you to use a resource entry's state in the same way that you would use React's useState
  useEntryState: <A>(...args: Array<any>) => [A, (A | A => A) => void]
};
```

### `createSingleEntryResource`

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that assumes there is only one entry in the resource state. The getter function simply returns the last data that was fetched. The setter function simply sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`. Basically the loader function will only be called once if it successfully resolves.

Author: I think this makes more sense. But what does `(pre set)` mean?

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that assumes there is only one entry in the resource state. The getter function simply returns the last data that was fetched. The setter function simply sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`. Basically the loader function will only be called once if it successfully resolves.

Reviewer: Got ya! It means that the value is pre set for the user. Mainly an indicator to let the user know that the values are pre-applied for them when the resource is created.

Thoughts?

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that assumes there is only one entry in the resource state. The getter function simply returns the last data that was fetched. The setter function simply sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`. Basically the loader function will only be called once if it successfully resolves.

Author: Gotcha. I think there may be a better way to communicate that. Really I think if we just removed the `#### loader` section it would get the job done. The sentence before it says `It takes a loader function and creates a resource using the following inputs`, which suggests that the following things will be pre-filled for you. Or maybe it would be better to say something like:

```markdown
Creates a resource that only has one entry. It conveniently supplies getter, setter, and predicate functions to `createResource` under the hood, allowing you to simply supply a function that fetches your data. Once your data is fetched it will not be refetched.
```

Then maybe it would be okay to leave the details of the getter, setter, and predicate out. Thoughts?

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that assumes there is only one entry in the resource state. The getter function simply returns the last data that was fetched. The setter function simply sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`. Basically the loader function will only be called once if it successfully resolves.

Reviewer: Love it!

```javascript
const myResource = createSingleEntryResource(authToken =>
  fetch(`/api/about_me?auth_token=${authToken}`)
);
```

### `createKeyedResource`

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that stores retrieved data in an object literal, allowing you to create a key for each entry. The getter function returns the data that is associated with key that your key creating function returns. The setter function sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`.

Author: Again, clearer. I'm still not understanding what `(pre set)` means. And I'm thinking we should just take out `opinionated`. And I think I need to change the predicate so that it only checks if it is not `undefined` instead of if it's truthy.

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that stores retrieved data in an object literal, allowing you to create a key for each entry. The getter function returns the data that is associated with key that your key creating function returns. The setter function sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`.

Author: What about this?

```markdown
Creates a resource that organizes its entries into an object literal. It takes a key setter function and a loader function that fetches your data. The key setter function derives the entry key from the same arguments that are supplied to the loader function. Once an entry is fetched it will not be refetched.
```

> An opinionated version of `createResource` that stores retrieved data in an object literal, allowing you to create a key for each entry. The getter function returns the data that is associated with key that your key creating function returns. The setter function sets the resource state to the data that was fetched. And the predicate function simply checks if the resource state is not `undefined`.

Reviewer: 👍!

```javascript
const myResource = createKeyedResource(
  // A function that takes all of the arguments that are supplied to the loader and uses the returned value as the key
  (authToken, userId) => userId,
  (authToken, userId) => fetch(`/api/users/${userId}?auth_token=${authToken}`)
);
```

> ### `createTimedSingleEntryResource`

Reviewer: **Requested Change**

This ideally would be directly under `createSingleEntryResource`

Author: By "directly under" do you mean hierarchically or just the next section after `createSingleEntryResource`.

So, like this?
```markdown
### `createSingleEntryResource`
...

#### `createTimedSingleEntryResource`
...
```

or like this?

```markdown
### `createSingleEntryResource`
...

### `createTimedSingleEntryResource`
...
```

Reviewer: Sorry! The next section! Mainly the context is easier to see when they are close!

Author: 👍

```javascript
import { createRemoteResource, once } from "react-remote-resource";

const userResource = createRemoteResource(
  once(userId => fetchJson(`/api/users/${userId}`)
);

```

### `withLens`

A utility function that takes a getter function, a setter function, and a load function. The getter takes the current state of the resource and returns a function that takes the arguments to the load function and returns some substate. The setter function takes the current state of the resource and returns a function that takes the arguments to the load function and returns a function that takes some data and returns the next state of the resource. The load function takes any list of arguments and returns a promise that resolves with some data that will be passed along to the setter. If the getter function returns undefined then the load funtion will be invoked, which will then invoke the setter.

> This is very handy if you want your resource to serve as an index of data. And it is flexible enough to allow you keep your data in whatever shape you want.

Reviewer: Moved up into intro of withLens

```suggestion
```

```javascript
import { createRemoteResource, withLens } from "react-remote-resource";

const tweetsResource = createRemoteResource(
  withLens(
    (currentState = {}) => (authToken, userId) => currentState[userId],
    (currentState = {}) => (authToken, userId) => tweets => ({
      ...currentState,
      [userId]: tweets
    }),
    (authToken, userId) =>
      fetch(`/api/users/${userId}/tweets?auth=${authToken}`).then(res =>
        res.json()
      )
  )
);
```

In this example the state of the resource will have the following shape:

```javascript
{
  [userId]: tweets
}
```

And we can `useResourceState` like normal.

```jsx
const Tweets = ({ authToken, userId }) => {
  const [tweetsByUserId] = useResourceState(tweetsResource, [
    authToken,
    userId
  ]);

  return tweetsByUserId[userId].map(tweet => (
    <Tweet key={tweet.id} tweet={tweet} />
  ));
};
```

### `storeBy`

> A utility function that takes a hashing function and a load function. The state of the resource will now be an object literal where the keys are created by the hashing function. If a value does not exist at a given key then the load function will be called and the resolved value will be stored in the object state at the created key. This allows the data for a given key to only be fetched once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A curried utility function that takes two arguments: a hashing function and a load function. It shapes the resource as an object literal where the keys are created by the hashing function and values are created by the load function. When the resource is used, if a value does not exist at a given key then the load function will be called and the resolved value will be stored. This allows the data for a given key to only be fetched once. Overall, the `storeBy` function is an opinionated version of `withLens`.
```

> This is just an opinionated version of `withLens`.

Reviewer: Moved to above.

```suggestion
```

```javascript
import { createRemoteResource, storeBy } from "react-remote-resource";

const tweetsResource = createRemoteResource(
  storeBy(
    (authToken, userId) => userId,
    (authToken, userId) =>
      fetch(`/api/users/${userId}/tweets?auth=${authToken}`).then(res =>
        res.json()
      )
  )
);
```

### `withTimeout`

> A utility function that takes a timeout duration in milliseconds and a loader function. This allows you to prevent fetching for a certain amount of time. **Note:** The timeout will be bypassed if `refresh` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A curried utility function that only fetches remote data once for a certain amount of time. It takes two parameters: a timeout duration in milliseconds and a loader function. **Note:** The timeout will be bypassed if `refresh` is called.
```

```javascript
import { createRemoteResource, withTimeout } from "react-remote-resource";

const tweetsResource = createRemoteResource(
  withTimeout(10000, (currentState = {}) => (authToken, userId) =>
    fetch(`/api/users/${userId}/tweets?auth=${authToken}`)
      .then(res => res.json())
      .then(tweets => ({ ...currentState, [userId]: tweets }))
  )
);
```

### `useAutoSave`

A React hook that takes a value, a save function, and an optional delay in milliseconds (defaults to 1000). When the value changes the new value will be saved if the value remains the same for the delay time.

> This is useful for optimistic UIs where the state of the resource is the source of truth and we are confident that the save will succeed.

Reviewer: The `useAutoSave` function sounds exciting. Could the confidence of success become problematic for failures? An end user could handle them using a `try catch` or if a fetch request was made could use `.catch`.
